# DMA Abstraction

However, given that the DMA example was not ready, we discussed the following:

- My plan for coming up with the DMA example:
    - Look into a few major DMA integration examples:
        - Linux API
        - Xilinx IP and API
        - Infineon/Cypress DMA API
        - Onyx SoC DMA IP/API
        - Synopsys AXI DMA
        - Qualcomm DMA
        - STM32 DMA
    - Collect information to help us create a sound DMA abstraction
    - Use the defined abstraction to advise an API that will capture the core DMA concept
    - Using the defined abstraction and Linux back-end, can I generate the Linux drivers easily? This could be an interesting case if we can show that:
        - it takes a normal amount of effort to provide all the needed information about a particular DMA IP
        - we can automatically generate the Linux driver for that DMA IP
        - we can also generate high-level core user APIs to use the generated driver to perform DMA transactions

Discussion:
------------

- DMA engines differ in
    - the way they are programmed
    - the level of control over the final DMA interface protocol used in bus communications
    - additional services provided (ex. direct peripheral interfaces, scatter-gather lists, etc.)
- The question becomes: how to we create a sound abstraction out of all these differences?
    - my strategy is to separate `abstract function` from `concrete implementation`. My claim is that `concrete implementations` do not change what the ultimate `abstract function` does. In comparison to `Halide`, the `abstract function` is similar to `an algorithm`, whereas the `concrete implementation` is analogous to a `schedule`.
    - the set of core `abstract functions` define the `DMA abstraction`
    - our expectation is that, when a user writes a program utilizing DMA services, they will first use the `core abstract functions`. Only when they want to get finer control over implementation-specific features, they can then use `implementation-specific functions`
    - Some of the implementation specific stuff include:
        - use of scatter-gather lists
        - direct peripheral interfaces
        - bus protocol manipulations
        - etc.
    - The question then becomes: how do we allow both `abstract functions` and `implementation-specific functions` in the DMA abstraction?
- In a DMA scenario, we also want to consider the issue of coherency. At this point, I think that information pertaining to coherency can be obtained from the `interconnect synthesis` layer. The generated software can automatically collect that information to determine how to handle coherency. From a perspective of trying to decouple concerns, we can also assume that the DMA APIs should not concern themselves with coherency issues. The glue code would, in this case, be responsible for that.
